Feature/cypress (#516)
ordina-jworks/ordina-jworks.github.io: _posts/2019-07-08-Cypress.md

---
layout: post
authors: [tim_vierbergen,glenn_van_de_putte]
title: 'Cypress: a new kid on the E2E block'
image: /img/cypress/cypress-logo-black.png

> tags: [ci,e2e,javascript,testing,selenium,cypress]

Reviewer: Use capital letters and check tags which are already there (Continuous Integration, JavaScript, Testing, Selenium, Cypress)

Maintaining versions, network issues, browser support, ...

For as long as I can remember, there was one constant in this setup!
`Selenium` was always there.
No matter what framework you used, Nightwatch, Protractor, Gauge, Robot, ...
`Selenium` was the man in the middle.
All I can remember from building a selenium setup a few years ago, are all the difficulties and frustrations.
Communication was not working, versions were not matching, timeout issues due to network lag, ... .
But still, `Selenium` was a dependency that was needed!

<div style="text-align: center;" >
  <img src="/img/cypress/selenium-setup.png" width="80%">
</div>

Not that I am not grateful for `Selenium` and its team of developers and maintainers, because let's be honest, what would we have done without it?
But now, Ohh yeah, there's a new kid in town.

# Cypress

> Fast, easy and reliable testing for anything that runs in a browser
~<a target="\_blank" href="https://www.cypress.io/">Cypress</a>

Cypress is aiming to provide its users with a bundled experience for writing end to end tests for web applications.

> While lots of other frameworks (as mentioned above) are all interacting over a Selenium server, for remote communication and per se, running its tests outside of the browser, `Cypress` is executed inside the browser.

Author: by definition; because of;as such;

Therefore `Cypress` is executed in the same runtime as your application itself.
Because of this, `Cypress` has native access to every single object. The `window`, the `document`, a `DOM`-element, a `service worker`, ... .
`Cypress` does not need to send commands over-the-wire and can just access everything.

# Comparison

|| Selenium | Cypress
| ------------- |:-------------:| :-----:|
| Debugging: | Hard/Remote | Easy/Access to everything/Nice tool
| Speed: | Remote = slow | In browser = Fast
| Parallel: | V | V
| Headless: | V | V
| Language support: |  Java, Perl PHP, Python, Ruby, C#, Javascript | Javascript
| Browser support: | Everything | Only webkit

## Basic architecture

Cypress consists of a few different building blocks.
One of them is its own `Nodejs` process.
You can look at this as being a backend.
This backend then launches a browser window, sets-up a proxy to this browser window and sets the domain to localhost.
The browser window has two `Iframes` inside.
One is for cypress itself.
The second one will hold the application under test.

> To make it possible to communicate with the application's Iframe, it injects a `<script>`-tag that also sets this to localhost.

Author: Yes the domain... so that all call go to localhost, I guess

> To make it possible to communicate with the application's Iframe, it injects a `<script>`-tag that also sets this to localhost.

Author: "it injects a `<script>`-tag that also sets its domain to localhost."

Because now both Iframes are running on 'localhost', it is possible to access everything of the application.

<div style="text-align: center;" >
  <img src="/img/cypress/cypress-setup.png" width="80%">
</div>

The proxy is proxying all requests from the web-application itself to its backend.
Because the proxy is part of the `Cypress`-setup, `Cypress` can act as the man in the middle and spy on, mock or modify the requests and responses.

Communication between the `Cypress` Nodejs-backend and the `Cypress` Iframe, that is running the tests, is through a `websocket`.

> There are a few downfalls as seen in the comparison.

Author: Downfalls do exist. But maybe downsides is better.

> Because `Cypress` is running inside of the browser, the language is `Javascript`.

Author: Indeed

This way, you already have a configured `base` to start from.

<div style="text-align: center;" >
  <img src="/img/cypress/firsttime.png" width="80%">
</div>

<div style="text-align: center;" >
  <img src="/img/cypress/firsttime2.png" width="80%">
</div>

As you can see, `Cypress` opens its own application.
This is kind of a backend application that will orchestrate the tests.
Running one of the tests, means that `Cypress` will open a second window, which is actually just a new browser window.
It will then inject itself into that window in one frame, and load the application under test in another frame.

## Configuring cypress

You can custom configure `Cypress` by adding a `cypress.json` file in the root of your project.

```javascript
{
  "baseUrl": "http://demo-app.localtest.me/demo-app",
  "integrationFolder": "src",
  "testFiles": "**.spec.js",
  "reporter": "mochawesome",
  "reporterOptions": {
    "overwrite": false,
    "html": true,
    "json": false,
    "reportDir": "results",
    "reportFilename": "report.html"
 }
}
```

> You can always override these settings on the command-line:

Author: true

In our small example we have an angular demo-app that has a material `sidenav` with 3 links.
Dashboard, clients and products.
The latter two both have a material `datatable`.

<div style="text-align: center;" >
  <img src="/img/cypress/demo-app.png" width="80%">
</div>

Let's say we want to test our clients navigation and `datatable`.
Create a `spec` file in the `/src` directory, in our case, named 'clients.spec.js':

```javascript
/// <reference types="Cypress" />

context('Clients test', () => {
    beforeEach(() => {
      cy.visit('/clients')
    })

    it('Clients page should have Clients as a title', () => {
      cy.get('.table-container-header h1').contains('Clients');
    });

    it('Clients table should initially have 20 rows', () => {
        cy.get('.mat-row').then(($rows) => {
          expect($rows.length).to.be.eq(20);
        });
    });

    it('Clients table should show 10 rows when pagesize is set to 10', () => {
        cy.get('mat-select').click();
        cy.get('mat-option').contains('10').then(option => {
            cy.wrap(option).contains('10');
            option[0].click();
            cy.get('mat-select').contains('10');

>             cy.wait(2000)

Author: Yeah :-)
Will remove that line :-D

            cy.get('.mat-row').then(($rows) => {
                expect($rows.length).to.be.eq(10);
              });
        });

    });
})
```
(reduced simple example)

## Running your first tests

If you would now run `$ yarn run cypress open`.
Cypress will open itself, showing you your new `spec`-file.
You can now run your `spec`-file by double clicking it, or click the 'run all' option on the top right of your `Cypress` application.

Changing the `spec`-file will trigger a reload/retest in you `Cypress`-environment.

<div style="text-align: center;" >
  <img src="/img/cypress/main-app.png" width="80%">
</div>

# Amazing features

The purpose of this post is not to provide you with some sample code, but trying to convince you to take a look at `Cypress`.
To do so, I'll quickly go over some really nice features, because besides the easy setup and nice main application, `Cypress` has much more to offer.

> ## Debugging with Cypress

Author: That's a really really really nice feature.

          "city":"Dumfries",
          "zip":"694245"
        }
      ],
      "pageable":{
        "sort": {
          "sorted":true,
          "unsorted":false
        },
        "pageSize":20,
        "pageNumber":0,
        "offset":0,
        "paged":true,
        "unpaged":false
      },
      "last":false,
      "totalElements":1,
      "totalPages":1,
      "first":true,
      "sort":{
         "sorted":true,
         "unsorted":false
      },
      "numberOfElements":1,
      "size":1,
      "number":0
    }
  ).as('stub-clients');   
  cy.visit('/clients');
})
```

<div style="text-align: center;" >
  <img src="/img/cypress/network-stub.png" width="80%">
</div>

## Screenshots (and videos)

Another cool embedded feature is the ability to capture screenshots or record videos.
`Cypress` comes with screenshot and video recording out of the box.
Screenshots always come in handy when trying to find a bug.
`Cypress` even let you take a screenshot, manually, from within your code.
Before, we were always setting this up using 'yet another plugin (and dependency)'.

# Continuous integration

Running `Cypress` on a continuous integration platform is also pretty easy.

> You just want `Cypress` to run the tests without opening the electron application.

Author: When running Cypress, it opens a 'manager'. I'm just referring to this 'extra application'.
But maybe I'll change it to:  You just want Cypress to run the tests and not to open its electron test manager for development.

`$ cypress run` just does that.
Just append the other options you want to override from the `cypress.json` and you are good to go.
`$ yarn run cypress run --spec 'src/**/*' --reporter mochawesome --reporter-options reportDir=results,reportFilename=report.html`

Or
e.g. (package.json):
```javascript
scripts: {
  ...
  "cypress:ci": "cypress run --spec 'src/**/*' --reporter mochawesome --reporter-options reportDir=results,reportFilename=report.html"
  ...
}
```

<div style="text-align: center;" >
  <img src="/img/cypress/command-line.png" width="80%">
</div>

> To use the `mochawesome reporter`, don't forget to install `mochawesome` itself and `mocha`.

Reviewer 2: It was already mentioned somewhere above to add mochawesome as a dependency

<div style="text-align: center;" >
  <img src="/img/cypress/mochawesome.png" width="80%">
</div>

# Conclusion

> Althoug there are some 'deep' downfalls with this new kid, such as only supporting javascript and Chrome, the positive sides are just to good to keep it on the sideline.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Although there are still some downsides to this new player in the e2e testing field, such as only supporting javascript and Chrome, there are just too many positives to keep it on the sideline.
```
